---
title: Community in Bloom
permalink: /get-involved/permalink/
description: Community in Bloom Programme
---
Community In Bloom (CIB) is a nationwide gardening programme under the National Parks Board (NParks) in Singapore. Since the programme’s inception in 2005, NParks has been actively engendering a gardening culture, a greater sense of civic ownership and community stewardship by facilitating the starting and development of Community Gardens islandwide. CIB provides guidance for Community Garden design, community management and site selection for new community gardens, and supports the educational development of Community Gardeners through educational resources, networking, competitions, and the CIB Ambassador programme. 
Today, the CIB programme has registered over 1,900 community gardens across Singapore, engaging more than 45,000 gardening enthusiasts from all walks of life and across ages. Community gardens can be found in public and private estates, schools, and organisations. These gardens come in many forms, and serve a wide variety of functions; from edible gardens where the community grows a wide variety of edible plant species for either self-consumption or sharing with community, biodiversity enhancing gardens where they grow plants to support local biodiversity, and ornamental gardens where they showcase expertise like orchid cultivation or bonsai growing. These gardens also support community bonding and other social activities, making them hubs for collaboration for residents, students, teachers, researchers and more. 

To see what some community gardens look like and get inspired, visit our Community Garden showcase page.

In addition to being part of NPark’s City In Nature vision, community gardeners are also active participants in other nationwide programmes, including the Gardening with Edibles campaign, in which NParks encouraged the public to grow their own edibles during the pandemic, the Ministry of Sustainability and Environment’s SG Green Plan, which is a whole-of-nation movement to advance Singapore’s national agenda on sustainable development, and the Singapore Food Authority’s 30 by 30 campaign, which aims to build up Singapore’s agri-food industry’s capability and capacity to sustainably produce 30% of Singapore’s nutritional needs by 2030.  
